- -2488 DR: The great kingdom of Raurin destroyed. Exiles flee into the west, eventually settling on the shores of the Alamber Sea.
- -2135 DR: The god Re founds the city of Skuld and gives it the name "City of Shadows". This is Year 1 of the Mulhorand calendar.
- -2087 DR: The god Enlil finds pearls on the west coast of the Alamber. He founds the city of Unthalass ("City of Gems").
- -1967 DR: Unther and Mulhorand clash at the River of Swords. The first Mulhorandi/Unther War begins.
- -1961 DR: Gods agree that the River of Swords will be the eternal boundary between Mulhorand and Unther. There are occasional clashes, but there is never a major war between the two southern powers again.
- -1500 DR: Expansion of Unther and Mulhorand.
- -1250 DR: Unther battles against the elves of Yuirwood and the dwarves of the Great Rift. Mulhorand, for the most part, ignores them.
- -1087 DR: The Thurgist Adept Thayd rebels, along with most of the wizards in Unther and Mulhorand.
- -1081 DR: Thayd and his conspirators defeated. Thayd is executed, but prophesies that Mulhorand and Unther will never be as great again.
- -1076 DR: Orcgate opens.
- -1075 DR: First battle of the Orcgate Wars. Orcs overrun many northern settlements, slaying thousands.
- -1071 DR: Battle of the Gods. Re is slain by the orc-deity Gruumsh.
- -1069 DR: Orc pantheon defeated. Orcs driven from the south.
- -1050 DR: Power struggle between Osiris and Set to succeed Re. Set murders Osiris.
- -1048 DR: Osiris resurrected by Isis. Horus-Re battles Set, casts him into the desert and becomes chief of the Mulhorand pantheon. Set worship is abolished. The tower of Set in Skuld is destroyed.
- -900 DR: Rise of Narfell and Raumathar.
- -734 DR: Enlil decides to leave the Realms. Gilgeam, son of Enlil, becomes King of Unther. This is Year 1 of the Untheric calendar.
- -623 DR: Narfell attempts invasion of Mulhorand and Unther by sea. The two southern nations defeat the Narfell fleet. Neither northern empire attempts to invade the Old Empires again.
- -150 DR: The great conflagration. Narfell and Raumathar destroyed in one final battle. Monsters and minor powers summoned in the last battle invade the south after the battle ends.
- -148 DR: The god-kings' final battle. An alliance of the Summoned is defeated and they are sent back to their home planes.
- -135 DR: Founding of Bezantur. Other cities soon built on the coastal areas of the Wizard's Reach as Mulhorand and Unther once again expand northward.
- 1 DR: Founding of Cormyr. This year is 2134 on the Mulhorand calendar.
- 108 DR: First Great Flood of the River Alamber nearly destroys Unthalass.
- 202 DR: Tribes of "barbarians" from the south invade southern Unther and Mulhorand.
- 205 DR: Mulhorand and Unther chase defeated barbarians back to their base settlement and exterminate them. A dying shaman prophecies that their empires shall soon crumble.
- 482 DR: Delthuntle and Laothkund break free of Unther.
- 504 DR: Teth and Nethra declare their independence. Unther begins a long campaign against the North Coast Cities.
- 643 DR: The wizard Nezram leaves his tower on the shores of Azulduth.
- 679 DR
  681 DR
  731 DR
  823 DR
  922 DR
  929 DR
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Unther forced to recognize
  the independence of the
  North Coast Cities. Unther
  never recovers from this
  long, costly, and bloody
  campaign. End of Second
  Untheric Empire.
  Nezram’s tower destroyed
  by the green dragon, Cha-
  thuulandroth. Nezram’s
  children scattered or slain.
  Second Great Flood of the
  River Alamber devastates
  Unthalass.
  Mourktar breaks free of
  Unther.
  Battle of Thazalhar. The Red
  Wizards ensure their inde-
  pendence from Mulhorand.
  End of Second Mulhorand
  Empire.
  Alliance of Chessenta drives
  Unther back beyond the
  Riders to the Sky Mountains.